Internal Network Enumeration
Before we begin enumerating the internal
network, let’s review what we already know
We know that Ajla is on the external
network behind one firewall.
We also know that Zora and Poultry
are behind another firewall
in the internal network,
but we don’t know what the
internal network looks like as a whole.
To find out, we must run a scan.
In order to effectively enumerate
the internal network,
we must first develop a
scanning methodology.
Running a full port scan is not an
effective method and as mentioned earlier,
ICMP host discovery will not work
through the proxychains tunnel.
Instead, we can attempt to discover
what hosts exist using the compromised
Windows host and use that information
to conduct a more thorough scan.
To do this, we’ll write a
quick one-liner
to ping every possible host on
the network using a for loop.
To iterate through a command using a range
of numbers, we can use the /L flag,
which accepts a replaceable
parameter (%i in our case),
and the number to iterate through in
the format of (start, step, end).
Next, we will send a single
ping for each host,
and set a short timeout with the -w flag.
To clean up the results, we’ll redirect
the output of the ping command to null.
Finally, if the ping command succeeded,
we'll echo the IP to
indicate the host is up.
This is executing a simple ping sweep.
This means that we cannot assume the
results are complete as there may be
live hosts that are configured
to not respond to ICMP packets.
Our sweep found five hosts,
including the gateway
which we can ignore for the time being.
The next two, 11 and 20, have
already been compromised.
This leaves two more hosts of interest.
We will conduct an Nmap scan
against these hosts from Kali,
scanning the top 1000 ports.
With the scan complete,
we can investigate our results.